Testing OAuth enabled connectors using MTF (#46)
mulesoft/docs-mule-sdk: modules/ROOT/pages/testing-oauth-modules.adoc

> = Testing OAuth Enabled Connectors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Testing OAuth-Enabled Connectors
```

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

> Mule runtime engine supports authorization through various OAuth grant types including `Authorization Code`. This grant type allows an external system, for example your Mule application, to operate on behalf of a user without the need to share the user's credentials. However, because the `Authorization Code` grant type is designed to force human intervention in the authentication process that identifies users using OAuth (OAuth dance), building an automated test for an application using this grant type is challenging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mule runtime engine supports authorization through various OAuth grant types, including `Authorization Code`. This grant type allows an external system (for example, your Mule application) to operate on behalf of a user without requiring user authentication. 

However, because the `Authorization Code` grant type is designed to force human intervention in the authentication process that identifies users using OAuth (OAuth dance), building an automated test for an application using this grant type is challenging.
```

> You can use the Storage Event processor to bypass the whole OAuth dance phase by manually providing a valid access token. It is your responsibility to manually obtain (and eventually update) such token.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To overcome this challenge, you can use the Storage Event processor to bypass the OAuth dance by manually providing a valid access token. Note the following requirements:

- It is your responsibility to manually obtain the token.
- It is your responsibility to be aware that the token will eventually expire. 
How often the token expires depends on the service provider to which you are connecting. 
- It is your responsibility to obtain a new token and update the test with it.

```

Reviewer: I think we should state the requirements at the very beginning rather than at the end, as caveats. Please consider implementing the previous suggestion (or rewriting to your own liking) and omitting the final text in this file.

> Consider the following configuration of the Salesforce connector using OAuth authentication and a user defined object store to hold the tokens:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following configuration of the Anypoint Connector for Salesforce (Salesforce Connector) using OAuth authentication and a user-defined object store to hold the tokens:
```

Reviewer: For further connector reference guidelines, see the Mulesoft Technical Documentation Style Reference:

connector names
In all new or revised text, use the following official naming standard for Anypoint Connectors:

     Full product name: Anypoint Connector for XYZ
     Short product name: XYZ Connector

Do not precede either the full name or the short name with an article (a, an, the).

You can refer to a connector in general by using “a connector.” You can refer to a specific connector for which you have already established context as “the connector” or “this connector."

Reviewer: Also, I wonder if this sentence really connects the need to obtain a token and then how to use it?
The following example shows a "user-defined object store to hold the tokens," but we have not told the audience that they should create a store to hold the token (tokens?) that they obtain, monitor?, and update as they expire.
Can we assume that the audience knows about creating the store?
And does the example show more than one token? I can't identify what syntax represents the token or tokens, but that is probably because I am as yet unfamiliar with this type of syntax....

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<os:config name="TokenObjectStore_Config" />

<os:object-store name="tokenStore" persistent="true" config-ref="TokenObjectStore_Config" />

<sfdc:config name="sfdcConfig" ...>
	<sfdc:oauth-connection ....>
		<sfdc:oauth-authorization-code ... />
<sfdc:oauth-callback-config ... />
<sfdc:oauth-store-config objectStore="tokenStore" />
	</sfdc:oauth-connection>
</sfdc:config>
----

> To use that token in an MUnit test, create a flow and insert your tokens in an MUnit Storage Event processor:

Reviewer: Should we specify the syntax or name representing "that token"?
Why does the sentence later refer to more than one token: "your tokens"?
Is there a text that defines the types of tokens, such as what I see here as access token, refresh token? Are there other types? Do we have to explain them here?

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<flow name="storeOAuthToken">
   <munit-tools:store-oauth-token resourceOwnerId="testUser"
                                  ownerConfigName="sfdcConfig"
                                  accessToken="${accessToken}"
                                  refreshToken="${refreshToken}"
                                  expiresIn="${expiresIn}"
                                  state="${state}"
                                  overwrite="true"
                                  objectStore="tokenStore">
       <munit-tools:additional-parameters>#[{param1: 'foo', param2: 3}]</munit-tools:additional-parameters>
   </munit-tools:store-oauth-token>
</flow>
----

> Note that the the `ownerConfigName` element matches the name of the Salesforce configuration. Also, the access token and other properties are placeholders. The idea is that you manually obtain a token, by manually performing the OAuth dance. Then you supply the tokens to the test via system properties, properties file, or whatever mechanism you see fit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the `ownerConfigName` element matches the name of the Salesforce configuration. The access token and other properties shown here are placeholders for the values that you obtain by manually performing the OAuth dance. Then you supply the tokens to the test via system properties, a properties file, or whatever mechanism you choose.
```

> Finally, your Munit test should have the following structure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you supply the token values, your Munit test has the following structure:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<munit:test name="oauthTest">
    <munit:behavior>
	<flow-ref name="storeOAuthToken" />
    </munit:behavior>
    <munit:execution>
            <sfdc:upsert config-ref="sfdcConfig" resourceOwnerId="testUser" ... />
    </munit:execution>
    <munit:validation>
            .... Your assertions here ....
    </munit:validation>
</munit:test>
----

> Notice how:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the following important elements in this example:
```

* Inserting the token is the very first step in the test.

> * The `<sfdc:upsert>` operation references the same config name and `resourceOwnerId` that matches the token you inserted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `<sfdc:upsert>` operation references the same configuration name and `resourceOwnerId` as the values that you inserted.
```

> == Caveats

Reviewer: See earlier; suggest omitting.

> That token will eventually expire. How often the token expires depends on the service provider to which you are connecting. When that happens, you must obtain a new token and update the test with it.

Reviewer: ditto
